---
layout: post
title:  "Iptables 101"
categories: sysadmin
---

Warning: Working with firewalls will lock you out of your machine at some point. Make sure you work in a throw-away virtual machine or have console access.

Iptables is the host based firewall used in linux.

Note that all commands must be run as root.

1. Run `apt-get install iptables`

    to ensure that iptables is installed

1. Run `iptables -F`

    to flush the tables and have no active rules.

1. Run `iptables -L -n`

    you will see 3 chains: INPUT, OUTPUT and FORWARD.

3. Run `man iptables`

    Read up on the chains and the three filters.

    Altenratively, the page on [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iptables) gives an overview also. Notice the [diagram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Netfilter-packet-flow.svg)

4. Run `iptables -P FORWARD DROP`

    To set the default policy for the FORWARD chain to drop

5. Run `iptables -L -n`

    you will see that the policy for the FORWARD chain has changed.

6. Run `iptables -A INPUT -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT`

    to allow already established connections

7. Run `iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -m state --state NEW --dport 22 -j ACCEPT`

    to allow incoming ssh trafic

4. Run `iptables -P INPUT DROP`

    To set the default policy for the INPUT chain to drop

5. Run `iptables -A INPUT -m limit --limit 1/sec -j LOG --log-prefix "iptables denied: " --log-level 7`

    to log all failed packages

6. Run `ping <ip>`

    where ip if the ip address of your linux box. This should fail.

7. Log in to the box using ssh

8. Run `cat /var/log/syslog`

    this will show you the packages from the ping attempts

9. Download [this]({{site.baseurl}}/static/example-fw-rules.txt)

    for example use the `wget` command

10. Run `iptables-restore < example-fw-rules.txt`

    to apply ruke

11. Run `iptables -L -n`

    to inspect the ruleset

12. From an external machine, run `telnet <ip>`

    to checkthat the TCP syn packages are blocked and shown in syslog

Read on [here](https://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/linux-iptables-examples.html) for more iptables examples.
